Willem-Jan  04:39
Marco is a internship from the University of Sannio, and he's under supervision of our friend Damian, who all of you guys met back in Spain somewhere. Right? I will unfortunately do a lot of talking today, but in principle, it's the idea you do the talking. So if I talk too much, please shut me up. So what we have done is we have prepared a presentation, and this presentation will be used as a guide to to let you tell us, share with us your expectations, desires, which we call requirements in technical jargon, which we need, of course, to further steer the PENTION project. And I think it's quite important that you guys lay down what you expect, desire, want, because of the fact, if you don't do it, I guess our friends in Valladolid will start developing something which, at the end of the day, might not be that effective for your purposes in the context of the PENTION project. So it's very ugly word, an elicitation workshop. This sounds like a medical surgery or something. It isn't, obviously. So today is just a brainstorm, a discussion about about what you would expect from the system. It's beautiful, by the way, by the way, courtesy, all the slides have been developed by Marco So, I only did a little bit of tweaking. So Marco, it's beautiful, thus far. So what's the purpose? So we would like to learn from you guys the challenges you face. So, yeah, what's very difficult for you guys in the context of sniffing, I guess, substances in particular areas. Now, what are your practical needs and requirements? So not theoretical ones, but what would you like to see in the system to overcome these operational challenges that you guys face on a day to day basis, and maybe if we still have time left, which I doubt very much. But then we could also talk about future solutions. What if you look further into the future using your own crystal ball? But the main focus of today is really on the operational challenges and the practical needs and requirements, and we will list later on, a couple of facets, a couple of perspectives, issues we would like to hear your opinion about. I will go through it very quickly. By the way, I have a very hard cut off at 11, so I really I need to stop at 11 o'clock, in case we won't be able to go through all of the material. I would like to ask you to come together yet another time, maybe online over one of the coming weeks, so we can we simply continue our discussion. Also, what we will do is we will record this session. I hope this is okay. I need your consent for it. And yeah, is it okay? Okay, perfect. And then, of course, we will use some AI to verbalize the text and to summarize it and share later on the transcript with you, just to do a double check, right? So we don't end up with requirements which, at the end of the day, are not that useful, or are not within scope, whatever? Yeah, the PENTION initiative, I don't think I need to remind you what's all about, except for the fact that it will be really this Ghostbuster van, right? That will be instrumented with the equipment, so it's a mobile lab that's at least in the vision. It also encompasses some AI based and data driven detection and signal analysis, where there will be a system composed of not only software, and this is typically our dealings, but there's also hardware requirements, which are extremely, I guess, important also to keep this project feasible. I remember that back in Valladolid, we already had some discussions on this notion of portability and scalability right of the approach. So and these are things maybe that we can later on zoom in on to So Marco, please, if I forget something, or I'm saying something which is extremely wrong or whatever, just let me know. Okay, yes, so don't be so this is not Italy, you can always say something that even contradicts what the professor said, or whatever, right? So we're very open here for discussion, so don't worry. So what are requirements? Yeah, indeed, we would like to delve deeper with you guys in the software requirements, also the hardware requirements and. Maybe also some process oriented or procedure requirements, and in particular with respect to the way in which you collaborate with other parties, which you need, in the context of PENTION type of projects and use cases that you will be involved in. Now, when I look into these requirements a bit more. Yeah, maybe for the hardware requirements we would need a different, an extra session, but I'm not sure, but, okay, let's, let's simply get started with our discussion. And we would like to organize the topics along these nine aspects, if you wish. So we would like first to start with the operational challenges. Then look at the aspect of portability. How mobile is all of this stuff. What does it imply? What would be your requirements or your challenges? Then something on the detection accuracy. We already experienced something with respect to this backend in Valladolid when we gave the demo. But what you would like to prevent, obviously, is, for example, false positives, for example, the AI assistance. What would you require there? What are your issues, challenges with respect to the explainability, which substances and precursors, and this one is extremely important, I guess. But what are your desires for that? The operational context in which you use PENTION how do you treat evidence handling? So the chain of reasoning, let's say, and this is closely related, I think, to the explainability that you want to, yeah, gather your data and keep it in such a way that you can use a later on in court. And the last but not least, what are your expectations with respect to user interaction and feedback? We realize this list is not exhaustive. Sometimes there's a little bit of overlap. We do realize all of that, but we thought this would be a nice way just to steer the discussion a little bit. But if, in case, you want to discuss any other topic, obviously feel free to do that. Okay, so how are we doing with respect to time? I'm trying to rush through it. Ah, 10 minutes. That's good. Okay?

Leonie Bouwknegt  12:28
I have a question, because we are not the only LEA connected to the project. Why are or did you ask the others to join as well? Or is this just for us? The Dutch police?

Willem-Jan  12:43
Now, this is just for you. Also. The other LEAs involved have already been queried through a survey. This has been done totally. But of course, what we also could think of, I can discuss it later on with Damian, by the way, he couldn't tune in because he's teaching right now. But what we could do is maybe I also have a joint meeting, maybe even physical meeting at some point in time, but at least the electronic one where we try to consolidate all of this. Okay, there's another question, yeah,

Jos Linssen  13:18
Yeah, eh Willem-Jan. We yesterday we had the bimonthly meeting, and start of October, I received two questionnaires, one going about the operational challenges. Yeah, and and one about the substances and the precursors. So we already gave back on a lot of topics that are presented here in this PowerPoint. I don't know if Marco or Damian are aware of that.

Willem-Jan  13:47
Yeah, that's a very good point. I was at least not aware of that, and they mean the not yet informed me about it. So

Jos Linssen  13:54
because the question, the questionnaire that that was that is given to the other Leah participants, I filled in the questionnaire on October 6, and then we all and then we also had an had an email on October 13, because Daouiz wanted to have, at the end of, at the end of that week, the substances and the precursors in which we were interested,

Willem-Jan  14:21
yeah, so that's already given. Then I guess we can skip those aspects in today's discussion. I wasn't aware of it. I apologize. Okay, all right, yeah, then, but then we can at least skip the substances and precursors one and which one as well the operational challenges were also already discussed. Was it? Yeah.

Jos Linssen  14:53
because that was in the in the large questionnaire that that Damien used to to set up the first. Preliminary draft for for the for the requirements,

Willem-Jan  15:08
okay, yeah, normally I would have taken this into account for to today's discussion, and I would have tried to consolidate this already. I was not aware of it, but maybe what we could do is still continue with the other points and have some additional feedback, maybe from the others. I don't know.

Jos Linssen  15:37
Because operational challenges was in the questionnaire, portability, detection accuracy, AI assistance was not explainability also wasn't. Substances and precursors we gave feedback to that operational context. There were three user cases that we elaborated on, data and evidence handling was not user interaction and feedback. I can't remember. So more than half of the requirements here on this sheet we already answered

Willem-Jan  16:17
to, yeah, okay, so then we can move on quickly. I mean, that's a positive thing. Let me try to make it a positive thing. Instead of,

Jos Linssen  16:25
I think we're going to get to the deadline of 11 o'clock. Absolutely.

Willem-Jan  16:30
And this makes me extremely happy. So Marco, Rick, Marco, maybe you have your hands raised as well. I need to distinguish between Marco.

Marco RIEC  16:40
Ja, maybe it's an idea that Jos shares the information that he gave in the questionnaires to you, Willem-Jan, and to Marco. Maybe you could use it. That's one thing. The other thing is the portability. When we were back in Valladolid, we were almost discussing the color of the van, and that's a step ahead of my schedule, because in the initial requirements, I read the word handheld unit, and I'm just asking myself, How did we get to from a handheld unit to the color of discussing the color of a van? Then then you seem to have missed a couple of steps, and if you're not considering handheld anymore, and if it already is in a van, then maybe we are not looking at all the aspects that are possible. Maybe we are limiting ourselves. It's just a question. I'm not no technician, so

Leonie Bouwknegt  17:52
good point. Yeah, I want to respond to that because, from my point of view, or the way I understood it is that it is a combination of a handheld device that you use to detract or to just, yeah, take air and then put that information that's into a machine. And the machine has to be in the area, so that is the that's probably in the van. So it is the combination of two from the way I understood it. But maybe something happened on the way to heaven. I don't know.

Willem-Jan  18:32
You never know what happens. I think this was also demoed, right? In Valladolid. So you

Jos Linssen  18:40
Ja, ja, the suction pump

Marco RIEC  18:45
with a little bit of disrespect the vacuum cleaner and the analysis apparatus, yeah, I guess, yeah. But Okay, was it was just a comment, so I was hoping for a handheld device in total, maybe weighing, but not weighing 2000 kilos. 

Willem-Jan 19:12
You had a good point.

Jos Linssen  19:13
Yeah, I also can give feedback on the portability. We discussed this yesterday. So as I see it yesterday, they proposed a PENTION S stationary and a PENTION M mobile. And as elaborated yesterday, they're all look they're already looking into the specs of a van. They already calculated what the power consumption is for placing the apparatus in the van, so they're already going going into the mobile variations and lesser the stationary. A stationary apparatus. So I think the handheld that was discussed in Valladolid, I think it is already off the table. So they're now talking about the stationary apparatus and mobile apparatus. And I think the sampling machine, the big the big vacuum cleaner that's, that's the one that's going to be mobile, handheld.

Willem-Jan  20:29
So, and then the idea is that there will be a stationary unit.

Jos Linssen  20:34
Well, that, well, the differentiated yesterday, in a PENTION S, and PENTION M being S for stationary and M for mobile, yeah, and we had to think five to 10 minutes discussion over the mobile, the mobile aspects that were that they were looking into at this at this time.

Willem-Jan  20:54
I mean, from a practical perspective, how practical is this? I mean, it's both a mobile and a stationary variant, including also

Jos Linssen  21:02
Well, I can imagine from a commercial point of view and from a well technical, high end point of view, that it will be that it would be nice to have such apparatus mobile, so you can In your interventions, you are not locked into some to some location aspects, because your van is your is your apparatus location, so you can put that in well quality aspects or whatever. However, if we're going to look at cost aspects that we discussed in Valladolid, integrating the apparatus in a van will bring additional cost and well, I don't, I don't know how the law enforcement teams will react to that. So I think for PENTION, portability in a van is really high end, but it's also on the other end and negative as for the cost at the end.

Willem-Jan  22:07
So maybe, and this is something which we didn't put on the slide and which we might want to add is the aspect of the economics, right? The cost, the financial the underpinnings, the business case of all of this. So I think that's a very good point which we can add to this requirements gathering that they can come up with an estimate of what which costs this solution would entail. So I guess Marco, this is something we can add we don't need to answer it right, but one of the requirements of LEAs is we need to have an indication of the cost involved in all of this, so, which, I think is absolutely clear. So this, with regards to the portability I was also thinking about, let's say the use cases or the trials that you guys would like to set up. I mean, is this something which also has been already discussed, Jos?

Jos Linssen  23:04
no. Yesterday they asked Dutch Marco for the meeting in December. Yeah. And I just received from Marco, I think an hour ago, an email from Dutch customs, so we didn't look into that yesterday, because yesterday they looked at working package one, two and five, and law enforcement wasn't integrated in those three work packages. So we briefly mentioned this, and then we went on with working package one, two and five,

Willem-Jan  23:39
because I think, from my perspective, and when I look at this now, a bit from a bird's eye perspective, for me, the use cases would drive the requirements very much so, so depending on the use case, I don't know you want to check on synthetic drug production facilities close to the Venlo area, or some... I don't know

Jos Linssen  24:02
I wrote them already down in the questionnaire that was sent to Damien. Because one we had air measurements in urban areas. The second one was air measurements in locations where large quantities of mail are collected. So the distribution hubs number three they said focus on MDMA bulk detection in a checkpoint scenario where we have the same things as in the in the distribution hubs. So I think for the Spanish border police, the checkpoint scenarios or are more likely to occur than will in Dutch customs. Yeah.

Willem-Jan  24:46
Okay, so this is also done, yeah. Okay, I've been asked to facilitate all of this, but I was, I'm not, I realized in the mailing list or whatever, so I really didn't know, which is unfortunate. I would say that also for the requirements analysis that in the document, again, the use case should drive them. I think so the aspect of explainability was it also part of the of the questionnaire and the detection accuracy?

Jos Linssen  25:16
No, that wasn't.

Willem-Jan  25:20
So what would you say about detection accuracy? I mean, is there any requirements from from your side? I think I can skip also, for the sake of Marco, let's say the operational challenges, portability, all of this has been tackled.

Jos Linssen  25:38
Yeah, detection accuracy was already in the questionnaire, so they asked detection requirements, Well, I put there high sensitivity, low detection limit for specific substances, so the drug or precursor can be detected at very low concentrations. And that has to be defined because they are stating that they can measure at lower than PPB level, part per billion, yeah, selectivity distinguish between different synthetic drugs and their precursors without false positives. I think I saw yesterday an Excel sheet presented by Damien, which they used for the modeling and the Excel sheet, they defined requirements, definition, usability, strategic, functional performance and costs. And Daouiz responded to that, that maybe the focus should be for the coming period at technical requirements, operational requirements and functional requirements. And I think those, I think those are in the questionnaire. So what I'm what I'm thinking about is what happened to the feedback that was delivered in the questionnaire.

Willem-Jan  26:55
I don't know That's a simple question.

Jos Linssen  26:57
That's maybe a question that can be asked to Damien

Willem-Jan  27:01
exactly. I mean, he's the big missing card here. I will discuss this with him, because he has thrown us a little bit in front of the PENTION van. So, but Okay, fine.

Jos Linssen  27:15
It is good. I don't know if the colleagues in Spain, the law enforcement colleagues in Spain also responded because,

Willem-Jan  27:22
exactly because then we would, probably, we would need this consolidation meeting much more, yeah, than anything else, right. So which is good that I learned.

Jos Linssen  27:31
fucking I think, I think Damien stated yesterday that they had a response of 36% on the questionnaires. Well, maybe this percentage is higher, because I answered for three Dutch colleagues. So Leonie, Dutch Marco and I sat together and we wrote down these requirements. So if you only look at the participants in the project, well, then the Dutch influence can be, can be multiplied with three. But I'm really asking myself now, did they do anything at this moment with the feedback that was presented in the questionnaires?

Willem-Jan  28:19
I don't know. I heard from Damian that he did process some materials, and he reflected it with Daouiz and Daouiz... uh... was quite happy. But this is all I learned. And I didn't know that you guys already filled out the questionnaire, because then obviously I would have organized this in a different way.

Leonie Bouwknegt  28:37
yeah, I was just wondering about, but that's just a content about the detection accuracy. It shouldn't be to perfection nice, because if, if you get a positive on a very, very small quantity, then when it, for instance, when it's cocaine, I learned that on every Dutch money bill there are traces of cocaine. So you we, otherwise we, we will have a hit in every area that we look for. So I don't know if any of us gave also a reply in that sense, because I've also heard like when in the harbor of Rotterdam, something was cleaned before, or there was a seizure at some point of a container, and then everything is taken out, but it's the same container is used that there's still traces of it, and that's Something that we also they should also take into account, because it is not a it's not a false positive, but it is. It's an old positive kind of or or it is so little that it's not interesting enough to put a whole process in action that we find a consumer amount of cocaine in a letter,

Willem-Jan  30:03
yeah, yeah. I guess if you do also the measurements close to a festival or whatever,

Leonie Bouwknegt  30:10
yeah, you will find, you will definitely find something. But I don't think that in the project that is what we are looking for, but, but that's my opinion. I don't know what the what the general opinion of the project is but and what my colleagues think

Jos Linssen  30:25
of this. We spoke about this in Valladolid. I spoke about this with this, with Daouiz, and his, what is it, Chief Technical Officer, CTO, and that was something they would take into consideration in building their sampling device.

Willem-Jan  30:44
Okay, okay, anyway, I will also give it back through through this discussion, so Marco can say a little bit more about this one. Ai assistance. I guess. What I assume that is meant here is that you could do trend analysis, for example, or you could indeed derive from detected locations and geolocation type of data. You could maybe find patterns and do stuff like that, right? I guess this is what this AI assistance entails,

Jos Linssen  31:40
but but wasn't the AI assistance also meant to be used in the air dispersion models?

Willem-Jan  31:49
That could be another one, indeed. Yeah, could be another one. So how it propagates, right? Yeah, yeah. Is there something which is practical that that you're using? I'm just wondering is this, does it serve any purpose?

Jos Linssen  32:07
Oh, well, if we're going to do air measurements, not in urban but in rural areas, and detection is sufficiently specific, well, then taking into account air flow, temperature, humidity, and whatever to find, to find the source, I think their AI assistance can be really of of use,

Willem-Jan  32:33
okay, okay. What about the trust? I guess this is also one of the aspects, I mean, and it comes close to transparency. So would you trust these models? I mean, I think there's already some experiments done in Sannio, I'm not certain with respect to this dispersion, indeed, and these trends, if you wish. I mean, yeah, the propagation of this stuff

Jos Linssen  33:03
legally, to trust something that is well, make very plain in a black box. It has to be validated to use it in court.

Willem-Jan  33:16
wait a second. It has to be what in court.

Jos Linssen  33:20
There has to be some kind of validation of the of the specific AI model to be using it in a court setting.

Leonie Bouwknegt  33:35
Yeah, I see also a link to the other topic of evidence handling in a different project, I was connected to RITHMS. They were also making an AI type of analysis tool. And when I was talking about this with our district attorney's office, they got really nervous and anxious and said, Why do we not know about this? And we should have been involved at an earlier stage, and our district attorney on a national level, we have this also procedure, or some strategic unit that looks into projects like this, and they need to be involved, and otherwise, in the end, well, you get a lot of Yeah, well, it felt like negativity, but I understand their what's the words... their concern. So it's good that we get them either involved at an early stage, that they know about it, and that somebody in the organization knows about it, but I but we have to prevent that there are going to be more barriers on the road, but it is helpful. And in the end, if we need we want to use technical tools, they need to be approved. And so there, yeah,

Willem-Jan  35:09
I think that the problem is, if I think about a little bit more now when discussing with you. So what I just tried to say, I guess, with the data analytics, is that you would have the samples at various geo locations, but there's no context, right? So you need probably to add some extra information from the Chamber of Commerce, for example, or from other type of sources that you interconnect right with a sample. So if you find a high concentration of cocaine, I don't know in certain areas, you might want to know which company is there and find other other data as well. I think the sampling does not impose itself any GDPR type of implications, but the other data might. Or maybe this is not needed at all

Leonie Bouwknegt  36:00
no, but in the chain of evidence, if it's the starting point of of a case. So and in some type sometimes our district attorney's office says the starting point needs to be valid and approved. So yeah, so I think we're talking about that stage, because if they're not, they don't know about it, they and we have to explain a lot, then we're too late. We need to, yeah, well, I think I made my point.

Willem-Jan  36:32
Yeah, I think so. I think this is very valid. It has to do with the scoping of the project, right? So you stop there, so you stop at the moment that you have a case, you don't do the extra on top of investigations. Am I correct in saying that, or is this wrong?

Leonie Bouwknegt  36:49
No, I think we have our regular tools that we also now use in cases, but that's the follow up. In the ideal world, the outcome of the tool would be stated as evidence, but we're not, definitely not at that stage. So it will be, it's an indication. And then we need our own process to kind of double check and verify exactly.

Willem-Jan  37:17
And this process of sampling, of starting up the investigations, etc, etc. This is also already communicated to Damien, I really don't know. I mean, the context in which all of this occurs, is it part of it? Is already part of what you answered in the survey?

Jos Linssen  37:47
Well, what we what we answered in the survey is how we would that also was a question how we would like to use the apparatus, and that was in three separate cases. Yeah, the operational context, exactly. Okay, okay, all right, yeah, that was answered in the questionnaire.

Marco RIEC  38:14
from the viewpoint of the police and the district attorney, all the mentioned points are valid. But if you look at scalability to use it in a more private setting, then all those aspects really don't matter, because if you are looking at something like a postal distribution center or something else, they only want to know if there's something illegal in their chain, and then they can report it to the police and they do their thing. So if you look at it from a point of scalability to other parties than just police and District Attorney, this aspect really isn't a problem, not a very big problem. And because I'm working for the RIEC, we are trying to make the logistic chain stronger against a crime. It really doesn't matter that it wouldn't hold up in court, because they would call the police and the district attorney anyway. So I think it's important that it holds up in court, but not all involved parties are relying on that aspect, I guess.

Willem-Jan  39:41
Good point, good point. So let me see, let me quickly go through the slides. Okay, user interaction and feedback. What kind of user interface feedback would be most useful during detection? I would assume this is also already sketching the operational context on how you would use the apparatus, but I'm not certain

Jos Linssen  40:07
all the current the current devices that we use, they give a hit, hit or no hit, binary feedback. Then they give feedback on the type of substance that is detected, and they give a .percentage of how trustworthy the feedback is. So, for instance, if we we take the MDMA powder that's that's also made of mix... that that is a mixture. We cut, we crush it, then we put it on the device, and it says, Okay, it's for 90... 95% certainty, it's MDMA, or for 95% accuracy, it contains MDMA and it contains also other substances that also, that also are listed at that time.

Willem-Jan  41:11
Now I remember that we also did have this discussion. I mean, these types of devices need to be tested and validated through an external party, just like electrical machines are validated through KEMA Keurmerk, is this another requirement that we maybe still have missed, that we should put on the table? Or is it not an issue because we need this 95% how trustworthy is that one?

Jos Linssen  41:38
I think that one has to be in the functional requirements. This is just, this is just user interaction,

Willem-Jan  41:44
yeah, yeah.

Leonie Bouwknegt  41:47
Okay, I have a question, yeah. Well, this is just a question for me to yours, because when you talk about this type of device, it is kind of, is this the TruNarc that is measuring through the packaging, or is it the sample, or because

Jos Linssen  42:01
this one is taking air samples

Leonie Bouwknegt  42:05
Okay, so that is kind of the same thing.

Jos Linssen  42:11
Yeah. Well, we have First Defender, TrueDefender, TruNarc, MX, 908, or whatever, you perform a measurement, and then it says, Okay, it's licit or illicit. And if it is illicit or licit, then we have a definition of what kind of substance that it is. But before the user the most user friendly, because, well, we are not all chemical scientists. A hit, no hit, would be primary. And then with with some elucidation on what it is.

Leonie Bouwknegt  42:54
But I was just wondering, what is the added value of the tool provided by PENTION. Then the one that you are, or we are using already,

Jos Linssen  43:07
as I understand it from Daouiz and from his CTO. This one is used for large air sampling possibilities.

Leonie Bouwknegt  43:18
Yeah, for So, for a whole container, a whole

Jos Linssen  43:20
unit. Ja. Or a whole palette, or in a room, or the dispersion models in free air.

Leonie Bouwknegt  43:29
So, yeah, our device cannot do that.

Jos Linssen  43:34
Primarily. We do solids and liquids. And the one we have at this moment for air samples has a lower vacuum pump so it is only usable at close proximity of substances.

Leonie Bouwknegt  43:50
okay, then, then I'm okay again.

Willem-Jan  43:57
All right, Marco, I'm also now looking at you, because you're involved in this project, much more than I am... and you're the facilitator, I guess. And am I missing something because, because otherwise, I think we can wrap it up. I'm going to report this meeting back to Damian. We'll also, I think still, we have picked up a couple of quote, unquote requirements that Damien missed out in his survey. So it was not bad to have this meeting, although what I would have liked to see, how I was informed a little bit better. So I will also give this feedback to Damien, in case, in future endeavors, I will be asked to help out. And yeah, we will give the transcript back to you, just for a quick check, and then we'll pick it up from there. Said, Okay, sounds good, yeah, because we don't need to spend more time if not needed. It's a waste of... all of our time. Okay, thanks for watching you. Thank you so much See you next time.